So now we're getting into one of the
really fun parts of, or is in my opinion,
in Firebase, and that's Cloud Functions.
So Cloud Functions are a way for
you to write server code
without running a server.
So you write a snippet of server code,
and we will run that code in
response to some event that happens
within the Firebase ecosystem.
And there's a whole set of events that
we're gonna go through here in just
a minute to check out.
And it's really cool and
it allows you to do very powerful things.
So the way to think about it is
that sometimes you might need to
get data that's located on
a server somewhere else.
Or sometimes you might wanna do something
that's very private like make a payment.
And that's gonna have private API keys and
things like that that need to be hosted
on a server, and you can't have
those embedded in the client.
And that is something that is really
the whole use case for Cloud Functions.
So whenever a document gets created
in Firestore, let's trigger that.
And let's call an external API to get that
data and return it back into Firestore.
Or, hey, a user got created
in Firebase authentication.
Let's send a welcome email out to them.
And maybe I have an account setup with
SendGrid or something like that So
it's really important to think about
sort of the triggering mechanism
here is that we have this server
code that lives up in the cloud.
But in order to access it, we do something
usually via the Firebase JavaScript SDK.
So I added a document.
I created a user.
So all of these things are trigger based.
They are actions that begin on the client,
but then take over on the server.
And one thing about functions are is
that functions are trusted environments.
So that means that we're going
to be using the Admin SDK,
which is a server-side SDK that's
very similar to what you'll
see on the client side,
except it has ultimate permissions.
It gets created with something
special called a service account.
And a service account is a special kind
of user that has access to do whatever.
It actually bypasses security rules.
It is basically a mega admin user and
it has the ability to do all these things.
So you can use this service account or
this Admin SDK with the service
account inside of a cloud function,
and you have access to do whatever
you need to do within your system.
So inevitably when we talk functions, and
before I get into showing the code form,
it's important to talk about cold start.
So cold start is a very talked
about thing in serverless space.
And basically, cold start is the time it
takes from your function from not being
booted up at all to running your code.
And so this is really important because
certain things might be more time
sensitive than others.
And with cold start is that it
can range anywhere between 500
milliseconds to higher,
depending on what your use case is.
You might be doing something very complex
inside of a cloud function that takes five
seconds to complete.
So obviously, the cold start may be
only 500 milliseconds, but then the full
running time plus cold start is gonna
be those extra five seconds as well.
Also, something that can affect cold start
is if you have a lot of node modules.
So if you install a ton of node
modules into your cloud function, and
you deploy it out,
those have to be installed.
Those have to be booted up for
your runtime to work.
So one of the best practices for really
reducing cold start is also making sure if
you don't need that module or if I could
get something that works a bit lighter.
That's a really good way
of reducing cold start.
And then there's also ways to
pay your way out of cold start.
Cloud Functions has a feature called min
instances, which allows you to reserve
a specific amount of instances that will
kind of always be warm and ready to go.
So if you expect a lot of traffic,
you can reserve 20 cloud functions.
And then when those requests comes in,
it's ready to pick them up and
you don't have to worry about cold start.
But you pay to keep
around those instances.
And this is something I consider
not including into it, but
I think it's worth checking out because if
you go and check out more documentation.
Very recently,
just like the other month, in fact,
Cloud Functions got a really big reboot,
where we call it Cloud Functions v2.
And it has a lot of great implications for
cold start because it actually
has a lot of new features that make
cold start a lot easier to manage.
So in Cloud Functions v1 world,
every time a function is invoked,
it creates an instance, and you can handle
one request to a function per instance.
So if another request comes in,
it has to spin up another function,
and so on, and so forth.
Whereas with Cloud Functions v2,
we have concurrency,
which means that
a function can be invoked.
And if another request comes in,
that function says, I'm alive, I'm active,
I can take that one as well.
That sounds good.
And by default, I believe it's 80.
And I think it can go
up to 1,000 functions.
So that way, it can really lessen
the amount of cold start that you incur.
It also means that the way you write your
functions just programmatically matters.
Because if you are only ever dealing with
one request per function, then you can
almost think about each function as
a sandbox for that user's information.
So it runs that one time,
you can get that user's information,
and this function tears down.
Whereas a concurrent function
is gonna spin up, and
it can take multiple requests.
So if you create an app,
a Firebase app that's associated
with a certain name or for
the user, well, that better be pertinent
for another request that comes in.
Or if you create a global state inside of
that function that's called current user,
well, that current user could
be somebody else that comes in.
So those are just really
important dichotomies to keep in
mind when you're thinking about
Cloud Functions v1 versus v2.
Both are still heavily supported and
have really cool use cases for
one versus the other.
And v2 is still very early on.
Not all triggers that we're gonna be going
over today are currently supported in v2,
but it's just a good thing to know.
So the way we set up functions
is kinda the Firebase CLI
handles a lot of it for you.
You write Firebase init functions, and
then it goes through this whole process
where it generates out your
folder structure for you and
even boilerplates a little function for
you.
And it actually creates this
very function right here.
And this is the signature of a function.
You require functions from
the firebase-functions SDK.
You create a name, so exports.helloWorld.
And we specify the type of trigger,
which is an HTTPS trigger.
And then on request, let's do something.
And so if I were to deploy this trigger,
I would get a URL handed back to me.
And anytime someone sent any type
of request, post, get, put, patch,
whatever, it will trigger that,
and I can do something with it.
And that's what to do to deploy,
just say firebase deploy.
And if you wanna be very specific and not
accidentally deploy your Firebase hosting
site, you can say deploy only functions.
And so that's a lot of showing, it's time